Update NNS dev docs (#3270)
dfinity/portal: docs/developer-docs/daos/nns/concepts/proposals/verify-proposals.mdx

---
keywords: [advanced, governance, tutorial, nns, voting, proposals, verifying proposals]
---

import { MarkdownChipRow } from "/src/components/Chip/MarkdownChipRow";
import '/src/components/CenterImages/center.scss';

# Verifying proposals

<MarkdownChipRow labels={["Advanced", "Governance", "Tutorial"]} />

> The NNS is the decentralized governance system that governs the full Internet Computer. The decentralized nature of
> the NNS is one of the key factors for the Internet Computer's security - it ensures that there is no single point of
> failure.
> Therefore it is important that proposals are verified by as many governance participants as possible.
> According to the decentralized nature, each neuron verifying a proposal can define their own criteria for when a
> proposal should be adopted or rejected. This provides some inputs that can be considered in this process.decentralized
> 
> The community is encouraged to discuss proposals and their verification on the [developer forum](https://forum.dfinity.org/), using the category `Governance` with sub-category `NNS proposal discussion` and using the proposal’s
> topic as a tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The decentralized nature of the NNS is one of the key factors of the Internet Computer's security - it ensures that there is no single point of failure.
Therefore, it is important that proposals are verified by as many governance participants as possible.
Each neuron verifying a proposal can define their own criteria for when a proposal should be adopted or rejected. This provides inputs that can be considered decentralized in this process.

The community is encouraged to discuss proposals and their verification on the [developer forum](https://forum.dfinity.org/), using the category `Governance` with sub-category `NNS proposal discussion` and using the proposal’s topic as a tag.
```

## Verify protocol canister management proposals
If you are looking to verify [protocol canister management proposals](/docs/current/developer-docs/daos/nns/concepts/proposals/proposal-topics#Topic:-`ProtocolCanisterManagement`), you
can refer to this video that explains the process on the example of an NNS governance canister upgrade:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/BsIg4JZobqU?si=psrn6IViSJJ7xgnb" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Apart from regularly checking open proposals, the following sections list some relevant information for
proposals submitted by the DFINITY foundation.

### NNS canister upgrades

> * For updates to the NNS canisters, you can follow [this repository](https://github.com/dfinity/ic). More specifically, the following sub-directories are relevant:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For updates to the NNS canisters, you can follow [the IC repository](https://github.com/dfinity/ic). More specifically, the following sub-directories are relevant:
```

    - `rs/rosetta-api/icp_ledger/src`
    - `rs/rosetta-api/ledger_core`
    - `rs/rosetta-api/ledger_canister_core`
    - `rs/packages/icrc-ledger_types`
    - `rs/registry/canister`
    - `rs/nns/governance`
    - `rs/rosetta-api/ledger_canister/ledger`,
    - `rs/rosetta-api/icp_ledger/archive`
    - `rs/nns/handlers/root/impl`
    - `rs/nns/cmc`
    - `rs/nns/handlers/lifeline`,
    - `rs/nns/gtc`
    - `rs/nns/identity`
    - `rs/nns/nns-ui`
    - `rs/nns/sns-wasm`

> * NNS core canister upgrade proposals are announced in [this forum thread](https://forum.dfinity.org/t/nns-updates-aggregation-thread/23551).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* NNS core canister upgrade proposals are announced [on the developer forum](https://forum.dfinity.org/t/nns-updates-aggregation-thread/23551).
```

* You can find the instructions on how to verify that the Wasm in the proposal was indeed build from the provided `git commit` in the proposal's section "Wasm Verification" (see [this example proposal](https://dashboard.internetcomputer.org/proposal/129394)).

### ICP ledger suite upgrades

> * For updates on the ICP ledger suite, you can follow [this repository](https://github.com/dfinity/ic). More specifically, the following sub-directories are relevant:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For updates on the ICP ledger suite, you can follow [the IC repository](https://github.com/dfinity/ic). More specifically, the following sub-directories are relevant:
```

    - `rs/rosetta-api/icp_ledger` is the  directory for the ICP ledger

## Verify IC OS version election proposals

If you are looking to verify [IC OS version election proposals](/docs/current/developer-docs/daos/nns/concepts/proposals/proposal-topics#Topic:-`IcOsVersionElection`), you
can refer to this video:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/z3rAQBkO8uI?si=AcIaAl51UN4bppIX" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

You can also consider the following information for proposals submitted by the DFINITY foundation:

* Each proposal submitted by the DFINITY foundation has a corresponding post on the forum (see [example](https://forum.dfinity.org/t/proposal-to-elect-new-release-rc-2024-05-01-23-01/30247)). Relevant posts can be found under the `Governance` category with the tags `replica` and `release`.

> * The relevant code is available in [this repository](https://github.com/dfinity/ic).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The relevant code is available in [the IC repository](https://github.com/dfinity/ic).
```

# From https://github.com/dfinity/ic#verifying-releases
sudo apt-get install -y curl && curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSLO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dfinity/ic/ec35ebd252d4ffb151d2cfceba3a86c4fb87c6d6/gitlab-ci/tools/repro-check.sh && chmod +x repro-check.sh && ./repro-check.sh -c ec35ebd252d4ffb151d2cfceba3a86c4fb87c6d6
```

* The reproducibility check script is versioned, cryptographically checksummed, and open-sourced, ensuring it cannot change post-submission. The proposal summary is immutable after submission. The upgrade image contents are cryptographically checksummed, and the checksum is included in the proposal payload and verified during the upgrade process.
* For GuestOS, DFINITY aims for a weekly release cycle, resulting in approximately one proposal per week plus additional feature builds.
* For HostOS, there is no fixed release cycle, but an upgrade is typically proposed every 3-6 months.

## Verify participant management proposals
If you are looking to verify [participant management proposals](/docs/current/developer-docs/daos/nns/concepts/proposals/proposal-topics#Topic:-`ParticipantManagement`),
these are some steps you can consider for verification.

> ### Add or remove node providers
>  For proposals that add or remove node providers, you can check that
>  * there is a proper forum introduction by the new NP
>  * self-declaration and Identity documents are uploaded on the wiki
>  * hashes of the self-declaration and identity document match the hashes in the proposal
>  * if this is a new region or community, that there is an entry in the public chamber of commerce register  (if chamber
>   of commerce number is provided)
> 
> ### Add or remove Data Centers
> For proposals that add or remove data centers, you can
>   * check who submitted the proposal (normally only a new node provider)
>   * perform an Internet search whether this is a legitimate data center.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add or remove node providers

For proposals that add or remove node providers, you can check that:
* There is a proper forum introduction by the new node provider.
* Self-declaration and identity documents have been uploaded on the wiki.
* Hashes of the self-declaration and identity document match the hashes in the proposal.
* If this is a new region or community, there is an entry in the public Chamber of Commerce register (if Chamber
of Commerce number is provided).

### Add or remove data centers
For proposals that add or remove data centers, you can:
  * Check who submitted the proposal. This is typically only a new node provider.
  * Perform an Internet search to verify whether this is a legitimate data center.
```

> ## Verify Node Admin proposals
> If you are looking to verify [node admin proposals](/docs/current/developer-docs/daos/nns/concepts/proposals/proposal-topics#Topic:-`NodeAdmin`),
> these are some steps you can consider for verification.
> 
> ### Update node configuration
> In such a proposal, a node provider sets the number of nodes and the `node_type` (Gen1, Gen2).
> You can
> * check these against the originally approved node allowance (whether that allowance was approved, and whether it
> matches the IC Target topology using the [github tooling](https://github.com/StephanusFischer/decentralization)
> 
> ### Add node operator
>  This proposal sets the allowance for a particular node provider in a specific data center.
>  You can perform the following checks
>  * if it matches the IC Target topology using the [github tooling](https://github.com/StephanusFischer/decentralization). For example, such proposals should be rejected if the target topology has
>  been reached.
>  * whether the node provider-id and data center-id match with the previously submitted proposals (the add node provider proposal, and the add data center proposal).
> 
> ### Remove nodes from the network
>  This is a proposal to remove (unhealthy) nodes from the network.
>  You can
>  * check whether the nodes are indeed unassigned and not in a particular subnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Verify node admin proposals
If you are looking to verify [node admin proposals](/docs/current/developer-docs/daos/nns/concepts/proposals/proposal-topics#Topic:-`NodeAdmin`),
these are some steps you can consider for verification.

### Update node configuration
In such a proposal, a node provider sets the number of nodes and the `node_type` (Gen1, Gen2).
You can:
* Check these against the originally approved node allowance (whether that allowance was approved, and whether it matches the IC target topology using the [GitHub tooling](https://github.com/StephanusFischer/decentralization)

### Add node operator
This proposal sets the allowance for a particular node provider in a specific data center.
You can perform the following checks:
* If it matches the IC target topology using the [GitHub tooling](https://github.com/StephanusFischer/decentralization). For example, such proposals should be rejected if the target topology has been reached.
* Whether the node `provider-id` and `data center-id` match with the previously submitted add node provider and add data center proposals.

### Remove nodes from the network
This is a proposal to remove (unhealthy) nodes from the network.
You can:
* Check whether the nodes are indeed unassigned and not in a particular subnet.
```

> ## Verify Subnet management proposals
> If you are looking to verify [subnet management proposals](/docs/current/developer-docs/daos/nns/concepts/proposals/proposal-topics#Topic:-`SubnetManagement`), these are some steps you can consider for verification.
> 
> ### Node replacement proposals
>  For these proposals you can
>  * check whether the nodes are replaced because they are dead/unhealthy or replaced for other good reasons.
> 
> ### Other proposals of this topic
> You can
>  * check whether the reasoning in the proposal makes sense wrt which proposals need to be adopted in which order.
> 
> 
> ## Verify service nervous system management proposals
> If you are looking to verify [service nervous system management proposals](/docs/current/developer-docs/daos/nns/concepts/proposals/proposal-topics#Topic:-`ServiceNervousSystemManagement`),
> you can refer to this video that explains the process on the example of an NNS proposal that elects a new SNS
> governance wasm:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Verify subnet management proposals
If you are looking to verify [subnet management proposals](/docs/current/developer-docs/daos/nns/concepts/proposals/proposal-topics#Topic:-`SubnetManagement`), these are some steps you can consider for verification.

### Node replacement proposals
You can:
* Check whether the nodes are replaced because they are dead/unhealthy, or replaced for other good reasons.

### Other proposals of this topic
You can:
* Check whether the reasoning in the proposal makes sense with regard to which proposals need to be adopted in which order.

## Verify service nervous system management proposals
If you are looking to verify [service nervous system management proposals](/docs/current/developer-docs/daos/nns/concepts/proposals/proposal-topics#Topic:-`ServiceNervousSystemManagement`),
you can refer to this video that explains the process using an example of an NNS proposal that elects a new SNS
governance Wasm:
```

* SNS upgrade proposals are announced in [this forum thread](https://forum.dfinity.org/t/sns-upgrade-aggregation-thread/24259).
* You can find the instructions on how to verify that the Wasm in the proposal was indeed build from the provided `git commit` in the proposal's section "Wasm Verification" (see [this example proposal](https://dashboard.internetcomputer.org/proposal/129633)).

## Verify application canister management proposals
If you are looking to verify [application canister management proposals](/docs/current/developer-docs/daos/nns/concepts/proposals/proposal-topics#Topic:-`ApplicationCanisterManagement`), you can refer to this video that explains the process on the example of an NNS frontend dapp upgrade proposal:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/J-aJFJ_4zIw?si=e6_iWReqaamEaVYO" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> Apart from regularly checking open proposals,  the following sections list some relevant information for proposals submitted by the DFINITY foundation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apart from regularly checking open proposals, the following sections list some relevant information for proposals submitted by the DFINITY foundation.
```

### NNS frontend dapp upgrades

> * For updates to the NNS frontend dapp, you can follow [this repository](https://github.com/dfinity/nns-dapp).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For updates to the NNS frontend dapp, you can follow [the NNS dapp repository](https://github.com/dfinity/nns-dapp).
```

### Ledger upgrades for ckBTC, ckETH, and ckERC20

> * For updates to the NNS canisters, you can follow [this repository](https://github.com/dfinity/ic). More specifically, the following sub-directories are relevant:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For updates to the NNS canisters, you can follow [the IC repository](https://github.com/dfinity/ic). More specifically, the following sub-directories are relevant:
```

    - `rs/rosetta-api/icrc1/ledger` for the ckBTC, ckETH, and ckERC20 ledgers, where `rs/rosetta-api/icrc1/ledger:ledger_canister` is the Wasm relevant for the ckBTC ledger and `rs/rosetta-api/icrc1/ledger:ledger_canister_u256.wasm` the Wasm for the ckETH and ckERC20 ledgers.

* You can find the instructions on how to verify that the Wasm in the proposal was indeed build from the provided `git commit` in the proposal.

### Ledger suite orchestrator canister upgrades

> The ledger suite orchestrator manages all ledger suites of all ckERC20 tokens. That is the orchestrator can
> upgrade managed canisters or add new ckERC20 tokens, see the [README](https://github
> .com/dfinity/ic/blob/master/rs/ethereum/ledger-suite-orchestrator/README.adoc) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ledger suite orchestrator manages all ledger suites of all ckERC20 tokens. The orchestrator can
upgrade managed canisters or add new ckERC20 tokens. See the [README](https://github.com/dfinity/ic/blob/master/rs/ethereum/ledger-suite-orchestrator/README.adoc) for more details.
```

* The following sub-directories in the [IC repository](https://github.com/dfinity/ic) are relevant:
    - `rs/ethereum/ledger-suite-orchestrator`

* You can find the instructions on how to verify that the Wasm in the proposal was indeed built from the provided `git commit` in the proposal.

### Internet Identity upgrades
* For updates to the [Internet Identity (II)](/docs/current/developer-docs/identity/internet-identity/overview) canister, you can find the code in [the II repository](https://github.com/dfinity/internet-identity).
* Each proposal points to the relevant commit that was used.

> * You can find the instructions on how to verify that the Wasm in the proposal was indeed build from the provided `git commit` in the proposal itself (see for example the section "Wasm Verification" in [this example proposal](https://dashboard.internetcomputer.org/proposal/129486)) and in the [Github release pages](https://github.com/dfinity/internet-identity/releases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can find the instructions on how to verify that the Wasm in the proposal was indeed build from the provided `git commit` in the proposal itself (see for example the section "Wasm Verification" in [this example proposal](https://dashboard.internetcomputer.org/proposal/129486)) and in the [GitHub release pages](https://github.com/dfinity/internet-identity/releases).
```

* You can find the code for the Bitcoin canister in [the `bitcoin-canister` repository](https://github.com/dfinity/bitcoin-canister).
* These proposals are not expected to happen frequently, but rather when there are important updates to be applied to the Bitcoin canister. You can expect that a new release will be cut in preparation of an upgrade in the above repository. See this [example release](https://github.com/dfinity/bitcoin-canister/releases/tag/release%2F2024-04-26).
* There are 2 Bitcoin canisters, one following the Bitcoin testnet and one following the Bitcoin mainnet network. The proposals will be specific to one of these canisters. Typically, you can expect that the proposal to upgrade the Bitcoin testnet canister happens 1 week before the one to upgrade the Bitcoin mainnet canister.
* You can find the instructions on how to verify that the Wasm in the proposal was indeed built from the provided `git commit` in the proposal's section "How can I verify the Wasm hash of this canister?" (see [this example proposal](https://dashboard.internetcomputer.org/proposal/129499)).

> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
